Long Bios
Anand Gandhi
“Call him a filmmaker, a science thinker, or a philosopher, it's all the same for him - he is here to ask the big
questions, share his insights with the world, and hopefully leave his mark on the future. Of which, film is only
one tool.”
- Bangalore Mirror
Anand Gandhi is a filmmaker, media investor and a systems thinker. He ushered in a new wave of Indian
cinema with his seminal Ship of Theseus. He introduced a paradigm shift in genre cinema with Tumbbad
and transformed the documentary cinema landscape with An Insignificant Man. He produced the
groundbreaking tabletop games SHASN and SHASN:AZADI, now played in more than seventy-five
countries. He created ElseVR, one of the world’s first Virtual Reality journalism channels. He produced the
hard science fiction comedy series OK Computer for Disney+. Anand’s work has elicited measurable
positive behavior impact and progressive legal precedent in the region. It has also inspired hundreds of
academic commentaries and papers.
His films have premiered and been awarded at the Toronto International Film Festival and the Venice
International Film Festival. They have also been awarded at the international film festivals of Transilvania,
Tokyo, Hong Kong, London BFI, Dubai, SITGES, and Mumbai, among several others. They have been
released by Disney, Netflix, PrimeVideo, and Channel4. His social impact films made in collaboration with
big brands have won multiple awards at Cannes Lions, Spikes, Andes, Adfest, and D&AD. Anand also won
the highest award in Indian cinema for Ship of Theseus - the National Award for Best Picture. The Critics’
Circle, UK included Ship of Theseus in their centenary celebration of the 15 “life-changing” films of the
century. The Indian Critics’ publication Film Companion included all three of Anand’s films in their list of
“25 Best Films of the Decade”. SHASN has been awarded the IndieCade Social Impact Prize.
Deeply invested in the communication of scientific humanism, Anand has been awarded the ‘Contribution
to Indian Philosophy Prize’ by the Jainology department, at Mumbai University. He has also been a
mentor at the XPrize Visioneers forum and a keynote speaker at Singularity University-INK. Anand is the
founder of SAFER (The Scientific Advisory Forum for Emergent Risks) - an informal network of scientists
and doctors brought together during the COVID-19 pandemic to assist the state governments.
He is the founder and CEO of the contemporary culture powerhouse Memesys Studios, focused on
producing games, films, and new media with the intention of “making complex intuitive”. He is also the

founder of Department of Lore - a studio at the forefront of a storytelling renaissance, pioneering the
crafting of neo-mythologies—interconnected, multi-format, large-scale IPs that resonate with global
communities.